				TPM Server Status
			     Written by Ken Goldman
		       IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center
	      $Id: STATUS 4716 2013-12-24 20:47:44Z kgoldman $

(c) Copyright IBM Corporation 2010:

This documentation is provided with source code (Trusted Platform
Module (TPM) subject to the following license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the names of the IBM Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The code is current to TPM 1.2 revision 118

Each command function (of the form TPM_Process_'ordinal') indicates in
the command header the revision of the specification that was used for
implementation.

1.1 and 1.2 commands are:

	- implemented 
	- 1.2 tested
	- all corner cases and error conditions have not been tested

The differences between 1.1 and 1.2 have in general not been tested.

Audit is lightly tested.

Virtual TPM instances (IBM Extension)

	- implemented and tested

The code comment 'FIXME' may indicate:

- a place where the specification is unclear or contradictory.  The
implementation may be a best guess as to the eventual requirements.

- the implementation is incomplete

The code comment 'NOTE' generally indicates an ordinal Action that is
not reduced to code, typically because the processing step was
previously performed.

